docs/developing/testing.rst, before:

******************
Test Writing Guide
******************

Coverage
========

Coverage information is auto-generated at `Coveralls <https://coveralls.io/github/tjcsl/ion>`_
This is useful for finding files with insufficient coverage, so you can focus your test writing more accurately.

Location
========

You will want to write your tests for each module in ``intranet/apps/<module>/tests.py``
Testing functionality that is useful for multiple tests can be found in ``intranet/test``

Writing Tests
=============

Looking at pre-existing tests can give you a good idea how to structure your tests.
The ``IonTestCase`` class is a wrapper around the standard Django test class.
It handles some ion-specific logic, such as mocking out ldap queries.
Here is an bare-bones example of the basic layout for a test:

.. code-block:: python

  from ...test.ion_test import IonTestCase

  class ModuleTest(IonTestCase):
    def test_module_function(self):
      # Put your tests here
      self.assertEqual(1, 1)


Running Tests
=============

If this is your first time running tests, you need to give the ion user permission to create the test db.
Run ``sudo -u postgres psql -c 'alter role ion createdb'`` to grant the necessary perms.
To actually execute tests, run ``./manage.py test``
Note that this deletes and re-creates the db from scratch each time,
so you most likely want to pass the ``-k`` option when developing tests as it significantly reduces run-time.


References
==========

- `Django Testing Guide <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/topics/testing>`_.
- `Python unittest documentation <https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html>`_.
- `Code Coverage <https://coveralls.io/github/tjcsl/ion>`_.
- `Travis Continous Integration <https://travis-ci.org/tjcsl/ion>`_.

Commit message:

added file deletion unit test

docs/developing/testing.rst, after:

******************
Test Writing Guide
******************

Coverage
========

Coverage information is auto-generated at `Coveralls <https://coveralls.io/github/tjcsl/ion>`_
This is useful for finding files with insufficient coverage, so you can focus your test writing more accurately.

Location
========

You will want to write your tests for each module in ``intranet/apps/<module>/tests.py``
Testing functionality that is useful for multiple tests can be found in ``intranet/test``

Writing Tests
=============

Looking at pre-existing tests can give you a good idea how to structure your tests.
The ``IonTestCase`` class is a wrapper around the standard Django test class.
It handles some ion-specific logic, such as mocking out ldap queries.
Here is an bare-bones example of the basic layout for a test:

.. code-block:: python

  from ...test.ion_test import IonTestCase

  class ModuleTest(IonTestCase):
    def test_module_function(self):
      # Put your tests here
      self.assertEqual(1, 1)


Running Tests
=============

If this is your first time running tests, you need to give the ion user permission to create the test db.
Run ``sudo -u postgres psql -c 'alter role ion createdb'`` to grant the necessary perms.
To actually execute tests, run ``./manage.py test``
Note that this deletes and re-creates the db from scratch each time,
so you most likely want to pass the ``-k`` option when developing tests as it significantly reduces run-time.

Is your test working locally but not on Travis CI? Try running ``./setup.py test`` instead to execute tests.

References
==========

- `Django Testing Guide <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/topics/testing>`_.
- `Python unittest documentation <https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html>`_.
- `Code Coverage <https://coveralls.io/github/tjcsl/ion>`_.
- `Travis Continous Integration <https://travis-ci.org/tjcsl/ion>`_.
